and what blockchain can do along with
digital tokens is to unify that
infrastructure and give us a a really
spectacular uplift in settlement times
efficiency and
speed I'm Nigel Dobson I'm the banking
services leader at A&Z and I am in
charge of Enterprise payments and also
the Innovation for payments and payment
services a
zed
I think one of the biggest insights
we've had at A&Z along our journey with
blockchain has been the application from
thinking about payments firstly so PVP
to what's known as DVP and so delivery
versus payment really focusing on
transactions rather than payments and
the reason we came to that conclusion
was because Payment Systems in most
countries including Australia are very
well developed and high high performance
real time and really wasn't a problem to
be solved there but when we looked at
Financial Market infrastructure we
observed that asset markets and
settlement infrastructure were separate
infrastructures and what blockchain can
do along with digital tokens is to unify
that infrastructure and give us a a
really spectacular uplift in settlement
times efficiency and
[Music]
speed so az's digital asset strategies
really centered around Financial Market
infrastructure transformation with a
very keen eye on unifying asset
transactions and payment and settlement
transactions on chain so we went about
uh working with our institutional
customers understanding what their needs
were understanding what what appetite
they had to experiment with digital
assets so the first thing we did was to
Mint an Australian dollar stable coin
onchain and perhaps controversially at
the time it was on a public
permissionless chain ethereum and that
got a lot of attention around the world
because it showed a little bit of
courage and it showed that we were
prepared to work outside the traditional
bounds of private chains uh but it also
meant that we were dealing with the
standards that were emerging within the
blockchain community uh particularly the
ethereum token standards which we
thought were really important also a
very vibrant developer Community was
situated around those um layer one uh
chains as well so having spoken to our
customers we minted an Australian dollar
stable coin one of our key and perhaps
oldest customers 100- year old customer
who's quite Innovative uh asked us to
Min an Australian dollar token for them
which they used on an exchange to buy a
digital asset and from there we
progressed through a number of different
live transactions including with cbdcs
in Australia uh We've tokenized carbon
uh and so we've always got an eye on
finding assets which our customers feel
would be valuable to tokenize and then
initiate uh transactions with our stable
coin to prove that we could really truly
uh deliver Atomic settlement uh which is
instantaneous and simultaneous exchange
of assets on chain and compared to what
we see today in most asset markets which
is exchange and settlement with t plus2
we were doing it in t plus 0 or in 10
minutes so for us that was a real
[Music]
Revelation so the asset classes we're
very focused on uh is nature-based
credits nature-based assets in general
are a growing asset class um they're
going to be increasingly in demand and
many of our customers want to invest in
them buy them and use them for
offsetting purposes as well so the other
really important thing about
nature-based assets is that they're not
very well served by existing Financial
Market infrastructure unlike equities or
other Securities and so we think that
that is a really fertile space for us to
work with our customers so that's why
we've tokenized carbon we've tokenized
um biodiversity credit so we actually
trying to help our customers with um
making markets work more efficiently but
also uh aligning really strongly with
our sustainable Finance strategy as
[Music]
well I think the aha moment the light
bulb moment if you like was when we saw
and proved that we could actually
achieve Atomic settlement between two
Assets Now we tokenized Australian
dollars and used that to uh settle a
transaction on Exchange but it wasn't
until we had tokenized our carbon credit
inventory and then subsequently used our
stali do stable coin to settle a
transaction automically instantaneously
that we revealed that it was true it
could be done and the implications for
asset Market settlement asset Market
security and speed and cost uh were
proven and that was really where we got
very excited about the future of
blockchain
technology
I think there's a lot of ambition around
tokenized assets I think a lot of
institutional investors and bankers
understand the opportunity um what I
think is holding us back at two things
the first thing is regulation and
Regulatory certainty uh depending on the
jurisdiction uh you're in there will be
different types of thoughts and thinking
and even momentum around regulation of
digital assets uh and uh and of course
crypto assets as well I think the other
thing is that there a very strong demand
side but the supply side is is not there
yet so there isn't the supply of
tokenized you know widely tokenized uh
digital assets that our customers want
to own um now certainly the crypto world
has demonstrated that it can that
business model can work with the with
the really radical operating model
transformation but what we need is more
customers with uh demands on tokenized
assets and that's why we're starting
with nature-based assets because that's
a an open field
that's very important to a lot of our
customers and it's something we can do
quite easily at the
[Music]
moment well I think there are a number
of challenges for institutions looking
to adopt blockchain technology and
digital Assets in general and one is
access how do I access these markets and
the other one is fragmented liquidity
these islands of liquidity that Sergey
talks about um often and I think uh
phrases it well that you know without
interoperability liquidity is always
going to remain fragmented and so when
we participated recently in a in a a set
of research experiments um including
Swift and chain link and the ccip the
the interoperability protocol that chain
link has developed that revealed that we
not only could use existing Market
infrastructure with swift to access
those digital asset markets but then we
could also join them up using the
interoperability protocol and that
revealed a a whole new series of um
opportunities that we thought we would
love to be part of and also we'd like to
talk to our clients
[Music]
about so at AZ we took a View Early that
we wanted to be blockchain agnostic we
were also quite focused on the public
permission list space um because it's
already existing in production uh we had
a view that we wanted to have a low a
lowcost infrastructure engagement with
um digital assets and so using exist
public chains seem to to be make
commercial sense so we B together a
number of um service providers to sort
of fill out our digital asset ecosystem
but internally um A&Z has built a
digital asset portal which allows our
customers to send instructions uh
regarding digital assets they want to
buy or sell we've also delivered a uh
tokenization engine which allows us to
tokenize many many assets taking
credentials off physical assets or
virtual assets to create tokens that
they want to um buy and sell we've also
spent quite a bit of time developing
smart contracts as well including uh
Marketplace contracts so we can
facilitate exchange of assets on in an
AZ environment and then finally we've
integrated apis as well so most recently
we integrated a foreign exchange API so
we could do cross currency uh token
swaps between Australian dollars and New
Zealand dollars and then also cross
chains uh which was also exciting using
the ccip uh protocol as well so cross
currency cross chain buying a uh
tokenized credit was the recent
transaction where we really saw
everything the whole orchestra playing
at once if you
[Music]
like well quite simply I think
blockchains and digital assets are the
future of Finance really for for many
many asset classes um yes the regulation
needs to evolve and mature and certainly
uh there needs to be critical mass of
both buyers and sellers and lenders and
borrowers but and as uh more Banks like
A&Z get involved with the services I
described around tokenization and smart
contract provision wallet infrastructure
now if that's coming from a trusted
counterparty like a bank like A&Z our
customers going to be much more inclined
to reveal to themselves the benefit of
fast settlement times very low
transaction costs it's going to be
gradual then sudden uh and I think
that's the evolution now that gradu may
take longer than we hope or wish but I
do think there will be a Tipping Point
where momentum in the asset markets uh
that are digitized and tokenized will
show that the the transformation has
occurred and and also I think that in
interoperability being threaded through
that all those blockchains um really
will be one of the deciding factors for
that Tipping
Point